
Null safety principles
Dart null safety support is based on the following three core design principles:

Non-nullable by default. Unless you explicitly tell Dart that a variable can be null, it’s considered non-nullable. This default was chosen after research found that non-null was by far the most common choice in APIs.

Incrementally adoptable. You choose what to migrate to null safety, and when. You can migrate incrementally, mixing null-safe and non-null-safe code in the same project. We provide tools to help you with the migration.

Fully sound. Dart’s null safety is sound, which enables compiler optimizations. If the type system determines that something isn’t null, then that thing can never be null. Once you migrate your whole project and its dependencies to null safety, you reap the full benefits of soundness —- not only fewer bugs, but smaller binaries and faster execution.

When creating a variable, you can use ? and late to inform Dart of the variable’s nullability.
int? aNullableInt = null;

int value = aNullableInt ?? 0; // 0 if it's null; otherwise, the integer


If you’re sure that an expression with a nullable type isn’t null, you can add ! to make Dart treat it as non-nullable:

int? aNullableInt = 2;
int value = aNullableInt!; // `aNullableInt!` is an int.
// This throws if aNullableInt is null.


 Important: If you aren’t positive that a value is non-null, don’t use the ! operator.
 
If you need to change the type of a nullable variable — beyond what the ! operator can do — you can use the typecast operator (as). The following example uses as to convert a num? to an int:

return maybeNum() as int;

Once you opt into null safety, you can’t use the member access operator (.) if the operand might be null. Instead, you can use the null-aware version of that operator (?.):

double? d;
print(d?.floor()); // Uses `?.` instead of `.` to invoke `floor()`.


 
